anything that you think you don't have
enough time for
just realize how much time you're
wasting playing video games i should
actually
really add it up i know i edited up for
just rocket league the other day
i have 500 hours on the xbox version and
800 hours on the pc version
so all together i have 1300 hours
in just rocket league and that's kind of
a hard number to fathom because the way
that it puts it is
in hours it doesn't really break it up
into how many days that would be
so if you account for sleep and let's
say okay so let's say that it's a nine
to five job
thirteen hundred hours turns out to be
about
over over a half a year i think it's
like
seven months is what 1300 hours turns
into if you're working nine to five
monday through friday it turns out to be
almost seven months
so that's insane i worked basically
worked a full-time job for rocket league
for seven months that's just that's just
insane and that's
just rocket league arguably that is one
of the games that i was the least
well i was not the least addicted to it
i was very addicted to that game
but i was addicted to it for the least
amount of time maybe two to three years
there's call of duty which has been
there my whole entire life i don't even
want to know
how much time has been put into that
game and then arguably i think overwatch
i definitely have maybe twice the amount
of hours i do in rocket league and i
feel like the same thing is true with
cigarettes and things like that where
in the beginning they aren't seen as bad
until the side effects start popping up
years later is video games as bad as
smoking cigarettes probably not because
it doesn't
actually kill you but it does take away
your time in a similar way smoking will
end your life at a certain point and you
lose the time after that
video games take away your time
everywhere
in between it's a different kind of
death you die
from the inside out i guess i guess you
really have to realize the underlying
problem
something that really helped me overcome
video game addiction was actually
journaling because once i started
reading them and i read through all of
my past journals and then i started
reading a couple a day you really
realize the patterns that occur
in your day to day thoughts and i
realized how many days there were
where i had to write i wasted so much
time today playing video games
or this video game got me so angry and i
played it
all night and i have something really
important to do and this
same message kept popping up week after
week day after day
and i feel like it happened so so often
that
it just made me realize that wow this is
something i really want to change in my
life
and that's when it clicked i just knew
that i could overcome it there because
reading these entries
really just helped i don't know how to
explain it but just seeing
my past self struggle the same way that
my current self
is struggling made me realize like wow
i really have a problem and i'm gonna
take the steps to
overcome it honestly who would even know
where i'd be at right now if i didn't
play video games
i could be a totally different person
probably for the better so if you're
addicted to video games the best time to
stop
is now responsibility
seems to have a unique significance
in adult life in that we can understand
very easily what it is when the concept
is applied to another person even if
it's just a
hypothetical other person and we have a
great deal of difficulty
recognizing the significance of it when
it's applied
to ourselves you've been drinking
you've had three or four bottles of beer
are you sure
you're okay with driving this car are
you sure you're responsible
to drive this car yeah yeah yeah yeah
i'm completely confident
okay well what if hypothetically
it's not you who's driving the car what
if you have your choice between two
different drivers
and one of them had just drank the same
amount of alcohol you drank and the
other one is his identical twin brother
but he's been sober all night long who
would you prefer
to have in the car if you were a
passenger
suddenly somehow that's very different
for us
you know uh one and all i've spoken to
people who've justified
legalization of drugs legalization drugs
like marijuana but they're also people
who think we should legalize drugs like
cocaine and heroin and so on and these
people feel that they personally
could could live in the society just
fine they would be able to handle it
with no difficulty at all being in a
society where they're surrounded by the
temptation
of buying cocaine and heroin as easily
as today
you can buy a bag of potato chips or a
cup of coffee that these drugs would
just be
available legally and commercially
everywhere and that they personally
would have no problem with that
what if you're dealing with a police
officer
and the police officer is acting a
little funny
and you start to wonder if this police
officer has been using cocaine today you
start to wonder if this police officer
is high on
heroin or some other opiate and you're
not even
in a position to ask because you live in
a society where there's no drug test
there's no requirement for the policemen
to have sobriety you live in a society
where it's a civil right
to use cocaine or heroin the same way
that today it's a civil right to drink
as much coffee as he wants to or
smoke as many cigarettes as he might
like
there's a provocative interesting
but misleading comparison in this video
i've been quoting between
cigarettes and video games he says
with the best of intentions i completely
understand why he's saying this he says
that
the time you lose smoking cigarettes can
be compared to
the time you lose playing video games
that um
in smoking cigarettes up to a certain
point as the decades go by
you seem to be having no negative side
effects but then your life is cut
short maybe you die at 60 years old
instead of dying at
100 years old so you've lost 40 years of
your life
and he's saying you know in a similar
way
by playing video games you're losing
eight hours here
eight hours there and it adds up to a
huge percentage of the time
when you otherwise would be awake and
alive and doing something with your
brain doing
something with your body it's not going
well it may also be cutting into the
time when you should have been asleep
let's be honest it's not just the hours
when you would be awake it may also be
cutting into the number of hours when
you would be asleep
but he's saying that in the same way you
may be losing in the end
decades of your life but you're not
losing that time to
death right you're just losing it
video games but we all know the contrast
we're making here is not the contrast
between
life and death it's in part the contrast
between a meaningful life
and a meaningless life and it's also the
contrast between
a responsible life and an irresponsible
one
right being a person who both cultivates
responsibility and who is capable of
responsibility how would you feel
knowing that you're dealing with a
police officer and he's
acting a little strange and he was up
last night playing video games until
four o'clock in the morning
i think every single person in this
audience knows what it's like
to stay up playing video games till four
o'clock in the morning even if that
memory is from when you were 11 years
old or 13 years old
but for some of you it's a memory when
you were 23 years old like
for some of you it was last weekend all
right and
uh you know like in your own life you
may feel like oh oh dude are you
are you still okay to drive you were up
all night playing that video game
yeah yeah yeah i'll be fine and i'll
drink a cup of coffee or i'll get
i'm i'm sure i'll be fine you know right
but if you had your choice
between a police officer who'd been up
all night playing video games
and a police officer who was well rested
which one would you choose and even this
is misleading
is not the same as a police officer
who's been doing drugs as opposed to
police officers been silver right
and it's not just one night because it
wouldn't really matter
if you were talking about a police
officer who had never played video games
in his whole entire life
but just for this one night had played
video games before him
the problem is of course that it's
cumulative
you're talking about someone who lives
this way habitually
night after night week after week year
after year and of course i don't think
people do that
seven days a week those who do end up
dead frankly but there are guys who do
it every weekend they're guys who do it
several times a month
and there are guys for whom the the
number of hours they add up they add up
in this way now
the contrast to smoking cigarettes is
instructive
i think there were men who are
completely competent
as an airplane pilot but who smokes
cigarettes every day
they they put out their cigarette they
get in the cockpit they fly the airplane
when they get out of the airplane to the
side they smoke a cigarette and they're
completely alert and completely focused
i think it's possible a comparison
that's very much discussed in that guy's
video is what happens during your years
in university
i think it's possible during your four
years of university
to be completely lucid completely sober
completely focused learn a lot
be very highly productive and smoke
cigarettes every day
i don't recommend it it's bad and evil
and wrong
but you know you can go to your lecture
you can smoke a cigarette listen to the
lecture
go outside smoke a cigarette after you
can study for your exams
and you can also still have the time and
focus and energy smoking cigarettes
maybe
in your spare time you're also you play
guitar in a rock and roll band or
something
i'm not going to suggest that you spend
your spare time learning cambodian
or flying to cambodia to do humanitarian
work or any of the other crazy things i
might suggest here all kinds of
meaningful things you could be doing
with your time
you know you could be staging
shakespeare for all i care the point is
whatever you do whether it's shakespeare
or playing music in a band or doing
humanitarian work or
research or you have business
aspirations all of those things
are compatible with a few minutes a day
here and there being lost to cigarettes
and the subtle change in your behavior
and mood
that's provided by nicotine especially
when you've already built up your
tolerance
when you've already become a nicotine
addict there's no perceptible high
once you're addicted to nicotine you
just you smoke cigarettes and then you
feel normal
it's the tragedy of it right um
[Music]
it's completely possible that you have
two police officers one of whom smokes
cigarettes and one of whom doesn't and
the better
police officer isn't cigarettes more
it's possible you have a
pilot or you have two students at
university and the one who learns more
than one is living a more productive
life right is the one who's smoking
cigarettes
but that's not how i feel about video
games you know i'm just gonna be real
with you
i don't think it's possible to be a good
and responsible adult
while in this way losing such a
percentage of your life
such a huge percentage of the hours when
you are awake when you are alert
to playing video games as this young man
described you know
in his case playing video games really
was like a full-time job
he says he doesn't want to do the math
and know how many hours it is
i think if he does the math his hunch is
correct that this is going to add up to
something like
40 hours a week that he was spending
with all the different video games and
all the different
uh consoles combined and
we're at a turning point in this culture
i read an account of the english civil
war and you know if you read about war
in almost any ancient society
you'll come up against this sort of
thing from time to time where
you know to some extent you're reading
this
and without being aware of it you're
imagining these being modern people with
modern attitudes and modern conveniences
you can forget when reading something
out of ancient history medieval history
renaissance history
you can forget when reading books of
history just how physically difficult it
was to read
something when they didn't have
electrical lights and how difficult was
to go to the bathroom and if it was to
feed yourself and how
very minor medical ailments could could
kill you
but you forget most of all that these
people had beer for breakfast
i'm reading with the english civil war
and the level
of drunkenness seven
days a week including drunkenness of men
carrying weapons participating in the
war like they're not just on military
duty
they're at the battlefront you know
drinking alcohol everything
look at that go wow and to what extent
to what extent do we
understand past historical epochs
in terms of the mind-altering drug use
that was normalized within them i have a
book here i drew attention to it
recently
this is a book dealing with the extent
to which the nazi regime
uh world war ii era uh germany
you know many distinctive features of
political discourse
were shaped by drug addiction
and the types of drugs people were using
that time in their millions like as a
mass phenomenon
and the types of drugs being used by men
who were in the military by men who were
members of the nazi who were leaders of
the nazi party and who were you know
police officers and uh the ss and
gestapo and so on people were forcing
people who were enforcing the system of
morality in that society
drug addiction as a mass phenomenon can
be a huge issue in modern times
not just in ancient ones but the point
is in many societies
alcohol for example was used to such an
extent on such a daily basis
that it becomes invisible but we all
know for a fact
it's not invisible and we're we're
turning the corner now
i think we're going to start to ask as
never before
you know if you want to be a police
officer
are you responsible i mean who really
needs to be taking drug tests is it just
olympic athletes
is it just boxers is it just baseball
players
like we have a society where we really
behave as if sobriety
only matters for people earning their
living
in the nba you know playing playing
basketball playing baseball
what what a joke for whom could it
matter less
who really gives a damn if the guys who
play basketball for a living
are using marijuana or cocaine or what
have you
this is this is of all the jobs this is
a position of like
perpetual irresponsibility of continued
childhood they continue living like
children they continue living like
teenagers
probably because they earn so much money
playing a game
right but whether you're talking about
police officers or university professors
or even just parents
if you're a parent raising a child
isn't there an important moral argument
for all of us
to start asking are you responsible
are you living a life where you can take
these responsibilities
take them seriously and right now
isn't it interesting that all the
emphasis is on people like university
students
i'm not at all convinced that the
sobriety of the university students
is a bigger problem than the sobriety
of the police the sobriety of their
parents
or the sobriety of the university
professors
[Music]
my
maybe we can we can practice